Welcome to Slash Forward. In
this video we’re going in hard,
and assessing the odds of surviving a run in with the
Collector, from the movie The Collector.
Hit that like button to support your local entomology
association.
To start, I’ll unpack the storyline to
see what we can learn. Let’s get to it.
We open on a nice, little suburban house,
undergoing some major landscaping renovations.
It’s tipsy owners pop in to blow off the
excitement of the evening’s successful
socializing. But they find the power to be out,
and Larry is frantically summoned upstairs to
investigate a mysterious, shaking box, which he
opens without hesitation and pays dearly for.
We then transition to quieter,
calmer environs filled with
natural beauty and fields of wildflowers,
and find a variety of contractors descending
upon this old colonial fixer-upper. Here we
meet Arkin, a handyman with a heart of gold,
who is tasked with installing the window bars,
to accentuate the Victorian prison aesthetic.
As he stares longingly at the family photos and
owner’s business cards, he receives a jump scare
from a straight up mermaid who invites him to
a tea party. Despite his full social calendar,
he partakes and uses this time to ask Jill about
the ideal gift for a young mermaid about her age.
Then he goes to shoo away a spider and is caught
in a moment of unintentional familiarity,
causing Michael to raise his hackles - so
he betas down and leaves the family
to their state-of-the-art security.
Outside, he finds himself in a tense standoff with
some wasps, and utilizes the one apparent health
benefit of smoking. He then politely notifies
the exterminator on his way home from the job
site. Before he goes, he runs across the eldest
daughter, Hannah, who tests out her feminine
wiles on him and then tells him to prepare for a
blowout. Afterward, she sneaks back into the house
and instigates an argument with her mom about her
desire to sit out their impending family vacay.
Then Michael gives Arkin his pay and says farewell
for a couple of weeks while the family is gone.
We then find Arkin dropping in on his daughter
at the alley, where he gifts her the hip Teddy
Ruxspin recommendation he got from Jill.
This pisses his ex Lisa right the hell off,
because she needs money, not things. You
can’t take care of children with toys,
and she can’t pay off her bookies with his weak
ass paycheck. So, she sees no viable option at
this point but to pack up and run. Arkin,
however, has something in the hopper and
he vows to get her the money she needs by midnight
so he can save his family and keep his baby close.
He immediately calls the boys to let them know
the heat is on. Then he visits the club to meet
up with Big Roy, who is eager to show off his new
Town Car. They’ve been casing the Chase household
for some time now, and Roy’s hesitant about
changing the timeline they had set in place. This
is when mistakes are made, you see. But, since
Arkin is in desperate need of immediate funds,
and they have a codependent relationship, he
doesn’t have much choice but to go along with it.
Arkin then rolls up at fog o’clock and sneaks up
to the house in his bandits uniform where he finds
the first major change to his expectations. He
gets down to business, making quick work of the
front door lock, and then steps in to find
the security system disengaged so that’s a
win. He heads straight up to the wall safe and
gets to hooking up all his code breaking tech,
then turns the dial slowly until he hears
each tumbler drop. He’s distracted from this,
however, when he hears the sound of
a second person entering the house.
He quickly packs up and tucks away where
the two cat burglars have a brief listening
standoff before Arkin slips back downstairs,
only to find the backdoor now sporting a new
quartet of specialty deadbolts. Recognizing that
he’s low on time and options, and then hearing
the mystery man head into the basement, he opts
to dart back upstairs to get what he came for.
But he can’t do the job without quiet
concentration, and sounds of torture
begin wafting up from the basement.
Mr. Chase then stumbles into the room,
thinking Arkin is a party to his misfortune,
and he goes to grab his 9-iron. This sets
off a trip wire that initiates a trap that
snags and drags Michael down the hallway,
suspending him momentarily before
dropping him to the floor below.
We then pull back a level as Arkin begins
to recognize that the house is set up in a
different configuration from normal. Being
a man of action, Arkin goes for the phone,
which causes a little tickle on his eardrum, and
then heads for the windows, which are similarly
set up to repulse any escape. The end result -
a partial degloving when he goes to extricate
his hand from the contraption. Arkin now proceeds
slowly, noticing nasty little surprises all over.
While the collector searches for the
other person he suspects is in the house,
Arkin tries to find a safe way out, and
is taunted along the way by sharpies he
can’t touch, and cobwebs of razor wire.
As he Mission-Impossibles his way around,
we recognize that he previously navigated
the house without injury through sheer luck.
Looking for a break from
finding and avoiding traps,
he decides to seek the safety of the
torture basement. Here he finds Mr.
Chase alive and screaming. He lets Arkin know
that his wife Victoria is in the next room,
and that he has a gun in his bedroom
safe. He then helpfully provides the combo
Cause he be on that grind, y’all. Arkin vows
to help get him out of there to keep him calm.
He then checks in on Victoria who is not well. She
has an eye patch that he can’t remove right now.
She lets him know that Jill is gone, but she
presumes Hannah is hiding in the house somewhere.
He convinces her to lay down a distraction by
screaming so he can get back upstairs. She does
what he says and, true to his prediction, the
collector doesn’t hurt her. He does, however,
ponder the thought of working over Michael, which
he ultimately chooses to do, and with gusto.
Upstairs Arkin opens the safe and retrieves the
large, raw gemstone he came for. He could make
about 50 birthstone pendants with that. He stuffs
it into his cargo pocket, which is really going to
smart later if he lands on it. Then he gets the
gun, but finds there are no bullets available.
While searching, he hears a noise from
the closet and uncovers a blind box
of epic proportions. Inside of it, he
finds the Lar-ster, from the opening,
who tells him to get the hell out. He warns
that their host kills those he doesn’t want,
and collects the others, which you don’t want,
and uses some of them like Larry here as bait.
Heeding this advice, he crams Larry
back into the box and rushes off.
Only too quickly as he soon finds himself
in a sticky mess. His attempt to navigate
the bedroom requires him to take certain actions
that alert the collector to his presence. However,
he is able to cover his tracks. The collector
arrives and presumes the housecat to be the
culprit while Arkin pulls off a 6-year old
classic, thus avoiding detection. When the
coast is clear, he carefully navigates his way
out, grabbing a couple paperclips along the way.
In the basement, he finds the fruits of
the collectors labors as Michael hangs,
eviscerated. He pushes past this and works
to release Victoria, warning her to keep her
eyes averted as they make their way through the
adjacent room. Unfortunately, the second she steps
on something squishy, she breaks the one rule,
freaks out and runs. When she hits the top of
the stairs, she is greeted by the collector and
violently stabbed. He then takes a quiet moment
to tenderly release a spider into the wild, before
dragging Victoria back to the tub for preparation.
The house is then enveloped in sound as he records
Victoria’s screams while stitching up her mouth,
preventing him from hearing Arkin try to break
out of the upstairs window. Then a huge storm
rolls in that prevents Hannah from hearing Arkin’s
warnings as she rolls up with her forbidden date.
She finds the front door lock to no longer work
and, assuming it’s just her petty mother teaching
her a lesson, she thinks little of it. They head
around to the back door where they are let in
by the collector. They get playful and narrowly
avoid a couple of traps as the Collector watches
in sticky anticipation. Until he’s discovered,
which is exactly what he likes, so no big deal.
Chad takes swift action, but suffers
the failure of showing up to a knife
fight with only fists, and ends up falling
backwards and getting absolutely wrecked by a room
full of bear traps, which ends up being much less
funny than cartoons would have led us to believe.
Hannah manages to dial 911, but is dragged off.
Arkin runs upstairs to break away some of the
boards on the windows and sets off an alarm that
allows him to circle back and release Hannah from
her barbed wire restraints. Due to the confusing
nature of what’s happening and his inexplicable
presence in her house, Hannah resists his help
and attempts to arm herself with the scissors.
However, tugging upon them results in her
getting flung bodily into the projector screen.
Feeling like he’s really coming out of this
empty-handed, Arkin attempts to see if he
can retrieve Larry. But, he discovers
that Larry and box are synergizing
pretty hard. So he leaves him and busts through
the window, performing a perfect tuck ‘n roll
to the yard outside. Only to discover that Jill’s
been upstairs the whole time, daammmmmmiiittt.
She’s small enough to avoid most of the traps
as the collector attempts to collect her,
and then Arkin steps in and escorts her to
her room. Here he tries setting up a booby
trap of his own involving the fish tank and a
tube television. But, the collector is wily,
and this isn’t his first rodeo. So he easily
avoids it and starts chuckin knives at them as
they run into the next room where Jill slips
away into the laundry chute as their pursuer
disrespectfully uses Larry’s
head to break down the door.
When he does, they engage in hand to hand combat.
During the struggle Arkin manages to unmask his
attacker for a brief moment of satisfaction before
he gets knocked the ef out. We then find them back
in the basement where it’s revealed his fishhook
budget was nearly unlimited. And he kindly wakes
Arkin up from his slumber with a delicate slice
across his face. Once conscious, he starts in
with a little tippety tap on his teeth as we
learn he is also an enthusiast of dentistry.
Jill makes a noise that attracts his
attention, resulting in Arkin trying
desperately to bring the attention back to
him (be a little attention whore). He finds
homophobic slurs to be the most effective
tool in his toolbox here. And, right as
this thing is about to turn into an episode
of fear factor, the police finally roll up.
The officer sees Chad’s body in the dining room,
and it puts him on high alert. Unfortunately,
this causes him to tunnel hard on the collector
when he appears, completely missing his faithful
doggo who greedily rips out his jugular to
slurp up all his delicious, inner fluids.
While he works on this, Arkin is working through
the delicious pain required to earn his freedom.
After completing this, they manage to scurry
up the laundry chute just ahead of the dog,
and snuff his face into a flaming trash
can. He then uses the dog to initiate a
confrontation with his adversary in
which, despite his tenderized hands,
he manages to come out on top and send
this prick back into the basement.
This gives him a little time and space to think
up a good trick to end things and, sure enough,
when the collector emerges they distract him
Shakma-style, and ensnare him in one of his
traps. How ironic. They run out of there as fast
as they can and try to get ahead of the line of
police tearing down the road. Arkin discovers that
a hitchhiker-style flag down would’ve been ideal
here. But, eventually, they get themselves all
boxed up safe n sound as the house gets blown.
Arkin even identifies the exterminator as the
culprit before leaving, tying off that loose
end. With it also just before midnight,
he has a chance to actually pull this off
But his relentless pursuer catches up with him
and, being a man used to getting what he wants,
indelicately crams him into his box
before driving off into the night.
With that now established, let’s get to the
question of whether you could survive this
ordeal. We are going to have to take this somewhat
at face value, in terms of considering your odds
based on the assumption you have already
found yourself inside a house of horrors.
Because we’re missing a key piece of information
in that we never see the collector actually
collect his victims. So we can’t really say what
steps might be involved in avoiding ensnarement.
For the intended victims, obviously Arkin has
the chance to decline to be a cat burglar.
And, if he hadn’t been encumbered by such a
strong drive to get Lisa out of her gambling
debt to ensure he could keep them around to
assuage the guilt of his fatherly absenteeism,
he would only be hearing about the
fate of the Chase family on the news.
But based on that assumption, it seems like
if you were inclined to stay alert and aware
of your surroundings, proceed cautiously and
keep your head on a swivel, it is possible to
make it out. But not probable, so I’d have
to put the survival odds at approximately
18.54%. That’s in consideration of
the average person, of course. You,
however, are exceptional….I’m sure you’d be fine.
Realistically, if you want to win in this
scenario, Arkin had the generally correct idea,
he just implemented it too timidly. First
off, when I saw his lockpicking kit,
I assumed it likely from my own experiences
as a cat burglar that we would find a pair of
wire cutters therein. Sure enough, he whips them
out later to handle the barbed wire on Hannah.
While the collectors' tricks and traps are
interesting, elegant and varied, they also
seem to be overly complicated in some ways, and
rely a great deal on pulleys and piano wire. A
good pair of wire cutters would really render
a majority of these things completely impotent.
This, and the fact that most of the useful items
in the house are made unreliable by booby traps,
also speaks to the wisdom of carrying
a knife on your person at all times.
If you have that covered, everything else is
simply a matter of time and opportunity. The
Collector seems to be a formidable
foe in terms of the martial arts.
So taking him on directly is really a
matter of necessity and consideration
for your physical condition. If you’ve
been injured or weakened in any way,
it’s probably best to avoid him. Especially since,
aside from being an obvious master of tai chi,
he also seems more than happy to find soft
places on your body to insert his knives.
Once you’ve made the decision to escape and are
alone upstairs, the power of positive thinking
will bring you through. It’s likely disheartening
to get your hand snapped up in a razor blade trap,
for instance. But, I find it hard to believe
that whatever spring/counterweight mechanism
he had set up for this has been repeated
on all the upstairs windows. By refusing
to let the fact that you’re stuck in some sickos
torturous wet dream cause you to recede inward,
you can begin testing and confirming the safest
point of egress and work your way out from there,
being very careful to make sure you time any
loud noises with the shrieks of pain
and agony emanating from downstairs.
This will be hard to overlook,
but in an emergency, you have
to take care of yourself first to put
yourself in a position to help others.
Hindsight is powerful for us here, but at the
time, he didn’t really do much saving on his
own by running the gauntlet multiple times.
You’ll have to push past your emotions here
to ensure you can take advantage of your
faculties for rational decision making.
Before we go, I’d like to give a huge thanks to
my donors, memorialized in the hall of headshots.
As an FYI, I have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or merch.
Any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of Lifeforce and Under the Skin,
with others to be added over
time. If you enjoyed the video,
I’d love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing. Thanks for watching.